Update 01-introduction-to-high-dimensional-data.Rmd (#67)
carpentries-incubator/high-dimensional-stats-r: _episodes_rmd/01-introduction-to-high-dimensional-data.Rmd

# What are high-dimensional data? 

*High-dimensional data* are defined as data in which the number of features (variables observed),
$p$, are close to or larger than the number of observations (or data points), $n$.
The opposite is *low-dimensional data* in which the number of observations,
$n$, far outnumbers the number of features, $p$. A related concept is *wide data*.

> This refers to data with numerous features irrespective of the number of observations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
efers to data with numerous features irrespective of the number of observations (similarly, *tall data* is often used to denote data with a large number of observations)
```

Analyses of high-dimensional data require consideration of potential problems that

> come from having a large number of features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
come from having more features than observations.

```

> 
> > ## Solution
> > 
> > 1. No. The number of observations (100 patients) is far greater than the number of features (3).
> > 2. Yes, this is an example of high-dimensional data. There are only 100 observations but 200,000+3 features.

> > > 3. No. There are many more observations than features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> > 3. No. There are many more observations (200 patients) than features (5). 

```

> ## Challenge 2 
> 

> > Load the `Prostate` dataset from the `lasso2` package and examine the column

Reviewer: Stop the sentence at `package'
```suggestion
> Load the `Prostate` dataset from the `lasso2` package.

```

> names. Although technically not a high-dimensional dataset, the `Prostate` data
> will allow us explore the problems encountered when working with many features.
>

> > Examine the dataset (in which each row represents a single patient) and plot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Examine the dataset (in which each row represents a single patient) to:

```

> > relationships between the variables using the `pairs` function. Why does it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> a) Determine how many observations ($n$) and features ($p$) are available (hint: see the `dim()` function) 
> b) Examine what variables were measured (hint: see the `names()` and `head()` functions)
> c) Plot the relationship between the variables (hint: see the `pairs()` function). 

```

Reviewer: You will need to edit also the next line to add the 'Why does it' that was dropped from above.

> > data(Prostate)   #load the Prostate dataset
> > ```
> > 
> > ```{r dim-prostate, eval = FALSE}
> > dim(Prostate)   #print the number of rows and columns
> > ```
> >
> > ```{r head-prostate, eval = FALSE}

> > > head(Prostate)   #print the first 6 rows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>> names(Prostate) # examine the variable names
> > head(Prostate)   #print the first 6 rows

```

Reviewer: also remove call to `names` in the next chunk

> > of variables, but for datasets in which $p$ is larger it becomes difficult
> > (and time consuming) to visualise relationships between all variables in the
> > dataset. Even where visualisation is possible, fitting models to datasets
> > with many variables is difficult due to the potential for
> > overfitting and difficulties in identifying a response variable.
> > 
> {: .solution}
{: .challenge}

Imagine we are carrying out least squares regression on a dataset with 25
observations. Fitting a best fit line through these data produces a plot shown
in the left-hand panel of the figure below.

> However, imagine a situation in which the ratio of observations to features in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, imagine a situation in which the number of observations and features in a dataset are almost equal.

```

Reviewer: This addresses Emma's comment in #39

> a dataset is almost equal. In that situation the effective number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that situation the effective number of

```

> ## Challenge 3
> 

> > Use the `cor()` function to examine correlations between all variables in the

Reviewer: Remove lines 212 and 213 (` cor(Prostate[, c(1, 2, 4, 6, 9)])`). See Emma's review in #39

Reviewer: also remove residual analysis
